docs/installation.md, before:

# Installation

## Download pre-builts binaries (recommended)

You can download ready-to-use packages including binaries for OS X, Linux and
Windows in various formats of the
[latest release](https://github.com/tus/tusd/releases/latest).

## Compile from source

The only requirement for building tusd is [Go](http://golang.org/doc/install).
Currently only Go 1.12 and 1.13 is tested and supported and in the future only the two latest
major releases will be supported.
If you meet this criteria, you can clone the git repository, install the remaining
dependencies and build the binary:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:tus/tusd.git
cd tusd

go build -o tusd cmd/tusd/main.go
```

## Kubernetes installation

A Helm chart for installing Tusd on Kubernetes is available [here](https://github.com/sagikazarmark/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/tusd).

You can install it by running the following commands:

```bash
helm repo add skm https://charts.sagikazarmark.dev
helm install --generate-name --wait skm/tusd
```

Minimum requirements:
- Helm 3+
- Kubernetes 1.16+

Check out the available [values](https://github.com/sagikazarmark/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/tusd#values) for customizing the installation.

Commit message:

chore: Bump minimal Go version to 1.18

docs/installation.md, after:

# Installation

## Download pre-builts binaries (recommended)

You can download ready-to-use packages including binaries for OS X, Linux and
Windows in various formats of the
[latest release](https://github.com/tus/tusd/releases/latest).

## Compile from source

The only requirement for building tusd is [Go](http://golang.org/doc/install).
We only test and support the [two latest major releases](https://go.dev/dl/) of
Go, although tusd might also run with other versions.

Once a recent Go version is installed, you can clone the git repository, install
the remaining dependencies and build the binary:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:tus/tusd.git
cd tusd

go build -o tusd cmd/tusd/main.go
```

## Kubernetes installation

A Helm chart for installing Tusd on Kubernetes is available [here](https://github.com/sagikazarmark/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/tusd).

You can install it by running the following commands:

```bash
helm repo add skm https://charts.sagikazarmark.dev
helm install --generate-name --wait skm/tusd
```

Minimum requirements:
- Helm 3+
- Kubernetes 1.16+

Check out the available [values](https://github.com/sagikazarmark/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/tusd#values) for customizing the installation.
